Magdalen McCulloch and Lily Davoren\
10/2/23\
Mobile Robotics Project 1 Write Up\
	The ROS software gives the Turtlebot 2 complex functionality, including following a dashed line on the floor, which was implemented in this lab. ROS uses a series of nodes, or executable programs, to complete tasks. The nodes communicate with each other with “topics”, which are special nodes which are able to publish (send) and subscribe (receive) to messages from other topics. These messages allow the robot to function continuously and seamlessly. This is important in an environment where the robot needs to constantly respond to external input, like the lab. Specific to this assignment, topics allow the robot to see blobs and respond to the fact that it saw them.<br>\
	We implemented the line_follower node which allows the robot to track and follow a dashed red line based on messages from the blob_finder repo. Within line_follower, Magdalen created a blob_callback that receives messages about the blobs using “MultiBlobInfo” and filtered them to find the biggest (hopefully closest) piece of red tape on the floor. From there, Lily added calculations to find the robot’s distance from the biggest red blob and trigger it to move in that direction using that calculation. Ideally, the robot moves smoothly along the line, but it is sometimes a bit shaky,  an ode to its ancestor. Once the robot reaches the end of the line, or stops finding blobs, it returns to the wander state, simultaneously continuing to look for a blob. The wander state causes the robot to turn in circles endlessly, which is ideal for finding a blob again. Considering that the blobs follow a line, it is likely that if at the end of the line, the robot turns 180 degrees, it will face the line once again. We worked together to decide on and implement this additional functionality. Additionally, our line_follower program maintained the functionality of the starter code including bumper and cliff detection.\
	Before we implemented line detection, Lily implemented a string reverser program for practice.This program receives messages from a topic called ‘chatter’ which publishes messages. Then, it reverses the message within the callback, and publishes the reversed message to a topic called ‘rchatter’. For example, ifi the ‘chatter’ topic published the message “hello” the reverser would publish the message “olleh” to ‘rchatter’. This preliminary task provided experience working with subscribing and publishing within ROS topics.\
	Throughout the process, multiple challenges were met and solutions were found for each. First, working with ROS topics for the first time proved to be difficult. We had to re-implement our reverser program multiple times to gain full functionality and optimization. It was our intuition to write a python program which runs through a string backwards and iteratively adds letters to a new string. In this case, it turned out to be more efficient to use “data.data[::-1]” in the call back, which reverses the string in one step. That way, we did not need to create new variables. Additionally, we ran into myriad problems completing the line follower part of the assignment. Mainly, we quickly got our robot to detect the red blobs, but it took a long time for us to figure out how to make it move toward that line. We had to add “elif” statements to ensure it entered the “line_follow” state and detected the blobs simultaneously. Along with that, we tried many ideas to get it to return to the wander state at the end of the line. Our final solution was to use another elif statement. Overall, although we were novices at the beginning of this lab, we carefully found solutions to each problem we faced.\
	Despite overcoming these challenges, this lab was fulfilling and fun to work on. The small victories, like using logs to know it detected blobs counted, but the big victory of seeing it move all the way down the line and turn around was worth the pay off. As I (Magdalen) write this lab report I keep getting happily distracted by Lily laughing at the movement of “Korok” along the red line. 


